Title: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.19621v1

Published Time: Mon, 23 Mar 2026 00:27:23 GMT

Number of Pages: 34

Markdown Content:
# DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

Yaqi Xie 1, Xinru Hao 2, Jiaxi Liu 3, Will Ma 4, Linwei Xin 5, Lei Cao 2, Yidong Zhang 2

> 1

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago, Chicago, USA. yaqi.xie@chicagobooth.edu 

> 2

Taobao & Tmall Group, Hangzhou, China. xinru.hxr@taobao.com;huaju.cl@taobao.com;yidongzster@gmail.com 

> 3

School of Economics, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China. liujiaxi@stu.scu.edu.cn 

> 4

Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, New York, USA. wm2428@gsb.columbia.edu 

> 5

School of Operations Research and Information Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, USA. lx267@cornell.edu 

Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) provides a general-purpose methodology for training inventory policies that can leverage big data and compute. However, off-the-shelf implementations of DRL have seen mixed success, often plagued by high sensitivity to the hyperparameters used during training. In this paper, we show that by imposing policy regularizations, grounded in classical inventory concepts such as “Base Stock”, we can significantly accelerate hyperparameter tuning and improve the final performance of several DRL methods. We report details from a 100% deployment of DRL with policy regularizations on Alibaba’s e-commerce platform, Tmall. We also include extensive synthetic experiments, which show that policy regularizations reshape the narrative on what is the best DRL method for inventory management. 

History : This draft: March 23, 2026 

Introduction 

Inventory control is a foundational problem in the field of Operations Research. Historically, the focus has been on stylized inventory and demand models that allow for the derivation of optimal policies. In modern times, these models can be significantly enhanced by leveraging high-dimensional contextual data. Even though optimal policies are no longer analytically defined, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) offers a promising general-purpose method-ology for learning performant policies that act on this high-dimensional data.  

> 0

YX, XH, and JL are co-first authors with equal contribution. WM and LX provided academic guidance, while LC and YZ offered industry leadership. 

1 

> arXiv:2603.19621v1 [cs.LG] 20 Mar 2026 Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management
> 2

However, the success of applying DRL to inventory control has been mixed (see Gijs-brechts et al. 2025). Indeed, a common approach is to frame inventory control as a generic sequential decision-making problem and then apply off-the-shelf DRL methods, which leads to actions that are difficult to interpret. More importantly, a dealbreaker is that the per-formance of DRL is highly sensitive to hyperparameters, whose tuning is time-consuming. In this paper, we show how these dealbreakers can be mitigated through policy regular-izations, where we encode simple intuitions from inventory theory into the policy learned by DRL. One such regularization incorporates the inventory concept of “Base Stock” into Deep RL, which is why we call our algorithm “DeepStock”. This not only reduces the black-box nature of DRL, but drastically speeds up training and improves final perfor-mance. In fact, our policy regularization techniques have enabled the full-scale deployment of DRL at Alibaba. As of October 2025, our algorithm manages inventory replenishment for 100% of the products (both domestic and international) sold by Alibaba on its B2C e-commerce platform, Tmall, covering over 1 million SKU-warehouse combinations. 

Description of DRL and Policy Regularizations 

A DRL method learns a policy π, represented by a (deep) neural network, that can decide an inventory ordering action from any state. In our problem, the state of an SKU at a time 

t includes exogenous features xt ∈ Rm, which consists of both static attributes (e.g., prod-uct category, demand magnitude, supplier, lead time, review period, profit margin) and dynamic attributes that evolve over time (e.g., upcoming promotions, seasonality, recent social media trends). In addition, the state includes endogenous information It about up-coming inventory shipments, which depend on prior actions (i.e., previously placed orders). This rich state space allows for meta-learning across SKU’s with diverse characteristics, such as in demand magnitude (e.g., 10 vs. 10,000 weekly sales), lead time (domestic vs. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 3

international), and general demand pattern (e.g., fast-moving vs. long-tail). Neural net-works can encode this high-dimensional information into meaningful representations while filtering out noisy signals. When a DRL algorithm is applied off-the-shelf, the policy π is a typically single neural network that outputs an order quantity π(It, x t) based on the input state It, x t. In the following, our policy regularizations define a structured mapping from the neural network output to an order quantity, with each regularization providing a specific interpretation of the network output. Importantly, because the neural network can in principle learn to undo these mappings, the regularizations do not restrict the expressiveness of the policy class. They are better understood as an action remapping that provides a more natural param-eterization for inventory decisions, biasing the learning process toward sensible behavior without constraining the space of achievable policies. Our first policy regularization imposes that the order quantity takes the functional form 

π(It, x t) = max {μBase (It, x t) − tot (It), 0}, where μBase is the learned neural network, and 

tot denotes the total inventory (including upcoming shipments) contained in It. Here, 

Base stands for “base stock”, where μBase (It, x t) represents the target level for the total inventory, and the order quantity π(It, x t) equals this target level minus the total inventory 

tot (It) we already have. Intuitively, the learned target μBase (It, x t) should depend mostly on the exogenous features xt which forecasts the upcoming demand, while the inventory information It is incorporated into the decision through the tot (It) term. Our second policy regularization imposes the functional form π(It, x t) =

μCoeff (It, x t)⊤feat (xt), where μCoeff is a learned neural network with an m′-dimensional output, providing Coefficients for m′ features extracted from xt ∈ Rm by the mapping 

feat (xt) ∈ Rm′

. At Alibaba, we have m′ = 5, with feat (xt) consisting of 4 historical and Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 4

forecasted demand features over the near and distant horizons, along with a constant bias term. Intuitively, the desired order quantity should exhibit a positive relationship with these features. Finally, we can combine both of our policy regularizations, in which case we impose the order quantity to take the functional form π(It, x t) =max μBoth (It, x t)⊤feat (xt) − tot (It), 0 , with μBoth being the learned neural network with an m′-dimensional output. 

Main Results 

Our policy regularizations can be tested in conjunction with any DRL method for training the neural network that defines the policy. We test two traditional DRL methods, Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient ( DDPG ) (Lillicrap et al. 2015) and Proximal Policy Opti-mization ( PPO ) (Schulman et al. 2017), which are representative model-free DRL methods that span different facets of DRL. 

DDPG and PPO may only perform well under specific hyperparameter configurations, which change with each dataset, causing a major bottleneck to their deployment in the real world. In fact, other e-commerce firms like Amazon have adopted a different DRL method that directly takes gradients of the total simulated loss over a specified time horizon (Madeka et al. 2022), instead of learning Cost-to-go functions for intermediate states which is key to RL. The performance of this “Differentiable Simulator” ( DS ) method is much less sensitive to hyperparameter tuning. We test our policy regularizations with DDPG , PPO , and DS , and report results based on synthetic data, offline data from Alibaba, and real-world deployments at Alibaba. 

Takeaway I : Policy regularizations improve the performance of DRL methods, es-pecially when hyperparameter tuning is limited .Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 5

We demonstrate Takeaway I on Alibaba’s offline data and especially our synthetic data, where we plot the best-so-far performance of DRL methods, with and without regulariza-tion, after each hyperparameter trial. The improvement from regularization is more drastic under a limited number of hyperparameter trials, even though the best performance after many trials also improves for all of DDPG , PPO , and DS .To explain this finding, our regularizations encode into the policy human intuitions that prevent obvious blunders: our Base regularization discourages large orders when we al-ready have a lot of inventory in It and ensures a stable total inventory, while our Coeff 

regularization ensures that larger historical and forecasted demands imply larger orders. This especially improves the policy learned under the untuned hyperparameter configura-tions, where learning may be hindered by obvious blunders. Although the policy regular-izations do not technically restrict the policy space, our synthetic experiments demonstrate that they significantly accelerate Q-function convergence in DRL. 

Takeaway II : Policy regularizations tilt the scales in favor of traditional DRL meth-ods ( DDPG , PPO ) over DS .We demonstrate Takeaway II on Alibaba’s offline data and our synthetic data. As ex-plained earlier, policy regularizations improve both traditional DRL and DS , but the im-provement is more significant when hyperparameter tuning is limited and when learning a Q-function, which is more likely to be the case for traditional DRL than for DS .We also dig deeper in our synthetic experiments to explain why traditional DRL can potentially beat DS . In our synthetic settings, we find that DS has a tendency to over-fit, because it does not explicitly learn intermediate structure in the form of a Cost-to-go function from a state or a Q-function from a state-action pair. However, given enough IID Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 6

trajectories describing the evolution of SKU features and demands, the overfitting effect diminishes, and DS performs no worse than traditional DRL (with or without regulariza-tion). Separately, Alibaba also found DDPG to outperform DS when learning from 55,000 90-day SKU trajectories on its offline data, although the reasons may differ given the much higher dimensionality of the real-world setting. 

Takeaway III : Policy regularizations enable a unified, full-scale deployment of DRL. We demonstrate Takeaway III by reporting the impact of policy regularizations on Al-ibaba’s deployment of DRL in the real world. Alibaba proceeded to deploy DDPG with our policy regularizations, which generally achieved the best performance in its routine offline tests, as exemplified by the results on Alibaba’s offline data presented in this paper. Although Alibaba has previously tinkered with DRL as reported in Liu et al. (2023), that work primarily addressed uncertain order yields arising from supply shortages during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, that DRL version was not general-purpose: it required grouping similar products and training separate models per group (see more details in Appendix B). By contrast, our policy regularizations have allowed for a full-scale deploy-ment of DRL that is unified , where we can meta-learn a single policy across all SKU’s by leveraging their features, instead of separating them into groups such as fast-moving vs. long-tail SKU’s. It is worth emphasizing that both the dynamic attributes in xt and the inventory state 

It are normalized across time for each SKU before being fed into the neural network. In conjunction with our Coeff regularization, this facilitates meta-learning across SKU’s. To explain why, the normalization allows us to interpret patterns in dynamic attributes and inventory states in a consistent manner across SKU’s with different sales magnitudes, while the multiplication by feat (xt) in our Coeff regularization ensures that the resulting Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 7

actions are properly denormalized with respect to the demand magnitudes. This allows unified meta-learning across all SKU’s, without requiring explicit clustering. 

Paper outline. This rest of paper contains the following sections: State of the Literature on RL for Inventory; Inventory Model, Metrics, and Policies; Training using DRL; Experi-ments on Synthetic Data; Experiments on Alibaba’s Offline Data; Real-world Deployment and Impact at Alibaba; Conclusion. 

State of the Literature on RL for Inventory 

Policy regularizations. To the best of our knowledge, simple forms of policy regularizations such as the “base stock” structure have not been previously explored in the RL literature for inventory management. Our high-level approach is to minimize an empirical loss function while imposing a policy structure that is satisfied by the optimal policy under stylized models, which does align with the sample complexity theory developed in Xie et al. (2025). Many previous works however have encoded inventory policy structures into RL. As examples, De Moor et al. (2022) modify the reward function by embedding structure from heuristic inventory policies, using those as teacher policies; Qi et al. (2023) use a labeling method that captures the behavior of the optimal dynamic programming solution under historical observations, and then use that as a regularizer on the learned policy; Maggiar et al. (2025) impose a penalty term in the objective when the learned policy violates certain structural properties known to hold for optimal policies (as proved in the literature). These works generally differ from ours by incorporating penalty terms into the objective function, rather than directly restricting the policy space. Finally, we note that our policy regularizations are problem-specific and should not be confused with generic regularization techniques commonly used in RL, such as entropy regularization (Haarnoja et al. 2018) or those used in trust-region policy optimization (Schulman et al. 2015a). Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 8

DS vs. traditional DRL for inventory. Although Madeka et al. (2022) and concurrently Alvo et al. (2023) have been promoting DS when doing DRL for inventory management, our paper aims to compare DS to traditional DRL with proper hyperparameter tuning, finding that traditional DRL (with policy regularizations) can actually outperform. Our synthetic experiments suggest a potential shortcoming of DS : its inability to learn across time when there are not enough parallel trajectories. That being said, DS performs excellently in synthetic settings given enough IID trajectories, which is consistent with the experimental findings in Alvo et al. (2023). 

Large-scale deployments of DRL for inventory. There has been increasing documentation of deep learning deployments in inventory management at leading e-retailers, including Alibaba (Liu et al. 2023), Amazon (Madeka et al. 2022), and JD.com (Qi et al. 2023). A distinction of our work is that we achieve 100% coverage of all products sold by Alibaba on its Tmall e-commerce platform, which is only possible by training a unified DRL policy. Although all these works (including ours) omit many implementation details due to corpo-rate confidentiality, our work also includes synthetic experiments that aim to academically illustrate our main findings inside the company. 

Inventory Model, Metrics, and Policies 

Inventory dynamics. Let T , P , and L be positive integers. We consider a discrete-time horizon of t = 1 , . . . , T days. Inventory orders are placed every P days starting at the beginning of day P + 1 (the “Period”), specifically at the beginnings of days P + 1 , 2P +1, 3P + 1 , . . . , with the first P days serving as a warm-up period. Ordered inventory arrives 

L days later (the “Lead time”), i.e., at the beginnings of days P + 1 + L, 2P + 1 + L, 3P +1 + L, . . . We let It = ( I0 

> t

, I 1 

> t

, . . . , I L−1 

> t

) denote the inventory state vector at the beginning of day t, where I0 

> t

denotes the inventory on hand, and Iℓt denotes the inventory that will arrive ℓ days into the future, for all ℓ = 1 , . . . , L − 1. We initialize I01 = I11 = · · · = IL−11 = 0. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 9

If inventory is to be ordered on day t, we decide the quantity ILt at the beginning of day t; otherwise we set ILt = 0. Over the course of the day, dt consumers each attempt to purchase one unit of inventory, where dt is called the “demand”. The actual sales made are min {I0 

> t

, d t}, and the inventory vector for the next day is updated as 

I0 

> t+1

= I0 

> t

− min {I0 

> t

, d t} + I1 

> t

= max {I0 

> t

− dt, 0} + I1 

> t

; I1 

> t+1

= I2 

> t

, . . . , I L−1 

> t+1

= ILt . (1) 

Performance metrics. In inventory theory, the standard loss objective to minimize is the underage and overage loss 

ℓbh := 

> T

X 

> t=P+L+1

 b · max {dt − I0 

> t

, 0} + h · max {I0 

> t

− dt, 0} .

That is, at the end of each day t (excluding the first P + L days before the initial order arrives): if dt ≥ I0 

> t

(i.e., the inventory stocked out), then we are penalized b times the unmet demand dt − I0 

> t

; otherwise, we are penalized h times the leftover inventory I0 

> t

− dt.However, ℓbh is not a practical evaluation metric, as quantifying b and h is difficult in practice, particularly since unmet demand during stockouts cannot be directly observed when dt is unknown. Therefore, at Alibaba, we evaluate instead the following two metrics: 

ℓSR := 1

T − P − L

> T

X 

> t=P+L+1

1(dt ≥ I0 

> t

) and ℓTT :=   

> 1
> T−P−L

PTt=P +L+1 max {I0 

> t

− dt, 0}  

> 1
> T−P−L

PTt=P +L+1 min {I0 

> t

, d t} .

Here, the “Stockout Rate” loss ℓSR measures the % of days ending in stockout, penalizing having too little inventory. On the other hand, the “Turnover Time” loss ℓTT computes the average end-of-day inventory divided by average sales, which measures the average duration that a unit of inventory stays on hand, penalizing having too much inventory. In our synthetic experiments, we train and evaluate policies using the standard objective 

ℓbh . We note that the loss objective ℓbh is naturally additive over time t, providing a reward signal for each action taken during RL training. At Alibaba, the policies are trained and evaluated using a weighted combination of ℓSR and ℓTT . We can adjust the relative weight Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 10

to trade off between ℓSR and ℓTT in practice, ideally getting a Pareto improvement where both ℓSR , ℓ TT decrease. Although ℓTT cannot be exactly decomposed into per-period losses, Alibaba approximates the immediate loss of an action by applying the Turnover Time loss over the periods from its arrival until the arrival of the next action. 

Contexts and policies. For all t = 1 , . . . , T , we let xt ∈ Rm denote a context vector available at the beginning of day t, that may be used to inform the inventory ordering decision. We assume that xt contains all the up-to-date information and repeats static information such as P and L. An inventory policy π outputs an order quantity given any inventory vector It and context vector xt, setting the decision variable ILt to π(It, x t) (i.e., π does not depend on xt−1, as that information is already outdated). We assume without loss that π is stationary, i.e., does not depend on t, because any time-specific information (e.g., holidays or seasonality) can be encoded into the context vector xt.

Discussion of model assumptions. We will train inventory policies π by simulating the above inventory dynamics using historical trajectories ξ = ( xt, d t)Tt=1 . We emphasize that the trained policies will be able to output decisions in real-world environments even if these simplified model dynamics are violated. For example, if we want to make an emergency order on a day t̸ = P + 1 , 2P + 1 , 3P + 1 . . . , then we can still evaluate π(It, x t) based on the current It and xt to get an ordering decision; meanwhile, if there are unexpected shipping delays, then the inventory update rule would deviate from (1) but the policy would proceed all the same. Of course, the resulting decisions may perform poorly under model violations—for example, if the actual lead time is highly random, then a policy calibrated for a deterministic L may fail to maintain sufficient inventory on hand. That being said, our success in real-world environments suggests that the policy trained on this simplified model is sufficient, and our general experience is that being able to train better Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 11

because the model is simpler outweighs the benefits of modeling more complex inventory dynamics. 

Training using Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) 

We generally let D denote a dataset of trajectories ξ = ( xt, d t)Tt=1 , which can be synthetically generated, or based on historical data internal to Alibaba. In Alibaba’s data, dt must be inferred if there was a stockout during day t, and this can be done by extrapolating dt based on time of stockout. We train using these inferred demands, and again, the success of the trained policy after deployment suggests that the extrapolation procedure was appropriate. We distinguish between datasets used for training, validation, and testing, denoting them using Dtrain , Dvalidate , and Dtest , respectively. Dtrain ∪ D validate is the data available for learning π, where during training π is updated iteratively based on the trajectories in Dtrain ,and a separate dataset Dvalidate is used to evaluate intermediate policies learned during the training and determine when training should stop. Finally, a third dataset Dtest is used to evaluate out-of-sample performance, although in deployment we would evaluate based on the actually observed ℓSR and ℓTT metrics. For any set ∈ { train , validate , test } and metric ∈ { bh , SR , TT }, we define 

Lset metric (π) := 1

|D set |

X

> ξ∈D set

ℓmetric (π, ξ ),

which is the average of loss ℓmetric (π, ξ ) over the trajectories ξ ∈ D set , for a policy π.

Overview of DRL Training Methods 

A DRL method learns a policy π based on Dtrain ∪ D validate . While there is an enormous variety of DRL methods (see e.g., Achiam 2018), we focus on model-free methods which directly minimize the loss of π on trajectories in Dtrain ∪ D validate , instead of trying to learn a stochastic model for the evolution of ξ = ( xt, d t)Tt=1 and then using that to optimize π.Off-policy model-free DRL can learn purely by observing historical policies; meanwhile, Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 12

on-policy model-free DRL requires simulating the current policies, which we can do, by replaying historical trajectories ξ = ( xt, d t)Tt=1 with the inferred demands dt on our inventory model. Key concepts in model-free DRL include taking policy gradients and learning Q-functions; the methods we implement consider both of these concepts. In this paper we consider DDPG and PPO , which we believe to be appropriate for our inventory problem, and also span these distinctions between DRL methods. In particular, 

PPO simulates a randomized π and reinforces actions that generate high rewards under on-policy trajectories, being a modern policy gradient method that “clips” updates to pre-vent π from changing too quickly. PPO can include additional tricks such as generalized advantage estimation (Schulman et al. 2015b) and an entropy bonus to encourage explo-ration. Meanwhile, DDPG learns a Q-function from a buffer of off-policy observations, which is used to optimize a (deterministic) policy by taking gradients of Q in the continu-ous action space (as is the case in our inventory problem). Given that on-policy simulation is also possible in our inventory problem, we always add the observations from the most recent policy to the buffer for learning the Q-function. DDPG can include additional tricks such as using a target network to stabilize the policy and Q-function updates. Finally, we consider DS , the differentiable simulator method which takes policy gradients based on loss on the entire trajectory. It fully exploits the fact that any counterfactual inventory policy can be simulated on historical trajectories while allowing gradients. 

Hyperparameter tuning. For any DRL method, the specific update rule for π depends on hyperparameters (e.g., “learning rate”, which determines the step size of each update). A DRL method may perform well only under carefully tuned hyperparameter configurations, which can vary across different datasets. Finding the optimal configuration is challenging, as both DDPG and PPO have at least 10 hyperparameters that may need to be adjusted Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 13

to achieve good performance, and a configuration can only be evaluated after the training run converges, which can take many back-and-forths between training and validation. Exacerbating the challenge, even for a fixed hyperparameter configuration the performance of a training run is random, depending on the seed. We follow a standard hyperparameter tuning procedure that first uses Bayesian optimization to search over configurations, and then runs the most promising configurations with multiple seeds each to determine a winner. Further details about our implementations of DDPG , PPO , and DS , including hyper-parameter search ranges, can be found in Appendix A. 

Combining DRL Methods with Policy Regularizations 

A DRL method specifies how to train π, which can be used in conjunction with any of our policy regularizations (detailed in the Introduction) that impose a functional form on π. For each combination of DRL ∈ { DDPG , PPO , DS } and Reg ∈ { None , Base , Coeff , Both }

(where None refers to “no regularization”, i.e., π directly outputs an order quantity), we let πDRL ,Reg denote the final policy learned. 

Experiments on Synthetic Data 

In this section, we present synthetic experiments to validate our results. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/xieyaqi188/DRL_inventory_Alibaba . We fix 

P = 2 , L = 1 , m = 1, and set T = 31 unless stated otherwise. While the lost-sales dynamics introduced in (1) are common in practice (e.g., at Alibaba), we consider the backlogged dynamics I0 

> t+1

= I0 

> t

− dt + I1 

> t

(i.e., I0 

> t+1

can be negative) in the synthetic experiments, as the optimal policy is relatively easy to compute. This formulation is also standard in many stylized inventory models and complements the lost-sales dynamics. For each setting, we construct datasets Dtrain , Dvalidate , Dtest by drawing ξ = ( xt, d t)Tt=1 

from trajectory distributions. In our first set of trajectory distributions which we call Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 14

INDEP, for all t = 1 , . . . , T , the feature xt is set to be t−12

, and dt is drawn from a scalar distribution that depends on t but is independent across t. We also consider trajectory-generation schemes in which the demand distribution for each SKU in Dtrain , Dvalidate , or 

Dtest is determined by parameters initialized randomly drawn from a prior, capturing the varying demand magnitudes observed across SKU’s. Indeed, in our second set of trajectory distributions, dt is correlated over time following an AR(1) stochastic process with the drawn parameters, and the feature is xt = dt−1 which determines the state of the stochastic process (if the parameters were known). In our third set of trajectory distributions, dt is IID across t following a distribution determined by a single parameter, and the feature is set exactly to this parameter. Details of these trajectory distributions can be found in Appendix A. We construct datasets for the following settings: 1. INDEP distribution with 20 sample trajectories, split so that |D train | = |D validate | = 10; 2. AR(1) distribution with 20 sample trajectories, split so that |D train | = |D validate | = 10; 3. AR(1) distribution with 10 sample trajectories, split so that |D train | = |D validate | = 5; 4. IID distribution with sample sizes |D train | = |D validate | ∈ { 5, 10 , 20 } and horizon lengths 

T ∈ { 7, 19 , 35 , 67 , 131 }.For the first three settings, we fix |D test | = 100 for evaluation. In the fourth setting, we assume there are |D train | SKU’s (with distinct parameters) in total, and we set Dtrain , Dvalidate 

and Dtest to include 1, 1, and 100 trajectories per SKU, respectively (i.e., |D test | = 100 ×|D train |). We compare policies πDRL ,Reg for combinations of DRL ∈ { DDPG , PPO , DS } and 

Reg ∈ { None , Base }, omitting our Coeff regularizations because xt is one-dimensional. We train, validate, and test using the same ℓbh metric, with b = 0 .9 and h = 0 .1. During training of DDPG and PPO , the immediate loss of an action is computed by applying ℓbh 

over the periods from its arrival until the arrival of the next action. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

15 

We consider the performance of πDRL ,Reg relative to π∗, which we use to denote the optimal policy knowing the true trajectory distribution. For our AR(1) distribution, we approximate π∗ by optimizing over the Dtest dataset. In either case, we report Validation Loss Gap := Lvalidate bh (πDRL ,Reg )

Ltest bh (π∗) −1 and Testing Loss Gap := Ltest bh (πDRL ,Reg )

Ltest bh (π∗) −1.

The Testing Loss Gap is our main metric of interest, which is out-of-sample and always non-negative, although we also include the Validation Loss Gap, which is in-sample and can be negative. For each combination of DRL and Reg , we report averages from running the hyperparameter tuning procedure three times, for each of Settings 1–4, in Figure 1. 

Results. As seen in Figure 1, the Base regularization improves the Testing Loss of the 

DRL method in 8 out of 9 cases (all except for DS in Setting 3), often significantly. Further-more, Figure 2 shows the best-so-far performance 1 in Setting 1 as hyperparameter trials are being conducted, for each πDRL ,Reg . We can see for all three DRL methods that the improvement from Reg = None to Reg = Base is greater under limited hyperparameter search, corroborating our Takeaway I from the Introduction. Still on Figure 2, we observe that without regularization, DDPG needs to search 17 configurations to surpass DS , while PPO needs to search 32. By contrast, with the Base 

regularization, these numbers reduce to 11 and 7, respectively. This suggests that policy regularization greatly reduces the hyperparameter tuning effort required for traditional DRL methods ( DDPG , PPO ) to outperform DS . Returning to Figure 1, we observe that regularization also improves the final Testing Loss (after hyperparameter search is finished) of DDPG and PPO by a greater amount than DS , and this can change whether DDPG 

or DS is best, in Setting 3. This corroborates our Takeaway II from the Introduction.   

> 1Technically this is Validation not Testing Loss, because we do not compute the latter during hyperparameter tuning. However, Figure 1 showed that the distinction between Validation and Testing Loss is unimportant in Setting 1. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management

16 

Setting 1 (INDEP trajectory distribution, 20 samples) 

Setting 2 (AR(1) trajectory distribution, 20 samples) 

Setting 3 (AR(1) trajectory distribution, 10 samples) 

Figure 1 Validation and Testing Loss Gaps for the 6 combinations of DRL Method and Policy Regularization. 

For a more nuanced reason why traditional DRL methods enjoy greater benefit from regularization, we consider DDPG as an example. DDPG minimizes the Bellman error of the fitted Q-function over historical transitions ( s, a, r, s ′), where s, a, and r denote the current state, action, and immediate loss, and s′ is the next state. The Bellman error is the gap between Q(s, a ) and the target value, defined as the sum of r and the future loss Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

17 

Figure 2 Validation Loss Gaps for the top-5 hyperparameter configurations, shown for each combination of DRL Method and Policy Regularization, in Setting 1. 

Figure 3 Critic loss and states during the first 10,000 timesteps in Setting 1 under a hyperparameter configuration tuned for DDPG None. The training starts after 500 transitions are collected via random actions. Each dot in the two bottom subfigures corresponds to a single visit to state s = ( It, x t).Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 18

min a′ Q(s′, a ′) (the squared gap is referred to as critic loss). We note that the action a

stored in each transition is the output of the policy network μ. That is, with the Base 

regularization, the action produced by μBase represents the target level of total inven-tory, whereas without regularization the action corresponds to the final order quantity. In Figure 3, we report the critic loss and the states s = ( It, x t), where xt = t−12

, stored in the replay buffer over the first 10,000 timesteps (i.e., 10,000 transitions) under a tuned hyperparameter configuration in Setting 1. We observe that the critic loss under Base 

regularization is consistently lower, indicating faster convergence of the Q-function. This improvement arises because Base regularization constrains the inventory state It to a nar-rower range, consistent with the definition of a “Base Stock” policy and confirmed by the bottom subfigures of Figure 3. Consequently, each single state in the range is visited more frequently, leading to more effective sampling and learning. Having established the benefit of policy regularization to traditional DRL methods, we now compare their final performance against DS across different settings. In Setting 3 (with the Base regularization), we can see that DS has better Validation Loss than DDPG 

but worse Testing Loss, suggesting that DS is overfitting. This occurs because DS takes policy gradients directly with respect to the trajectory losses in Dtrain , forcing in-sample minimization. Moreover, since DS does not learn from ( s, a, r, s ′) transitions, it lacks the cross-temporal learning that is central to traditional DRL methods and therefore DS is less sample-efficient. This overfitting seems to subside when the sample size increases from 10 to 20, as DS performs best in Setting 2. To further investigate the learning behavior of DS , we conclude by training DS (with the 

Base regularization) under different sample sizes and horizon lengths. In Figure 4, when the sample size is small ( |D train | = 5), the testing-loss gap remains about 8% even at T = 129 Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

19  

> Figure 4 Testing and Validation Loss Gaps for DS with Base Regularization in Setting 4.

under the simple IID distribution. This shows that increasing the horizon length T yields only limited improvement, highlighting the insufficiency of cross-temporal learning within 

DS . When |D train | increases from 5 to 10 to 20, the testing losses improve overall across all horizon lengths, indicating that DS does benefit from meta-learning across trajectories (i.e., across SKU’s), but nonetheless we do not see convergence for longer horizon lengths. As a final remark about overfitting, we find that with a limited number of samples, DS 

exhibits a large gap between validation and testing losses, demonstrating its tendency to overfit to idiosyncrasies in the observed trajectories. 

Experiments on Alibaba’s Offline Data 

We show one edition of Alibaba’s internal testing results on offline data. Here, Dtrain con-sists of 50,000 randomly-selected SKU trajectories from July to September 2024, while 

Dvalidate consists of 5,000 other SKU trajectories from the same horizon of T = 90 days. Dtest 

consists of 5,000 randomly-selected SKU trajectories from February to April 2025, which is a chronologically-later horizon. SKU’s in the datasets have varying values for review Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

20 

DRL Method DDPG DS 

Policy Regularization None Base Coeff None Base Coeff Both 

Ltest SR (πDRL ,Reg ) − Ltest SR (πDDPG ,Both ) (%) 10.10 6.03 4.41 2.10 2.18 1.74 1.91 

Ltest TT (πDRL ,Reg ) − Ltest TT (πDDPG ,Both ) (days) 6.13 6.46 -0.41 -1.25 -2.81 3.80 0.23    

> Table 1 Stockout Rates (reported in % of days) and Turnover Times (reported in days) on the test data, comparing all policies to πDDPG ,Both . Positive values mean worse than πDDPG ,Both ; negative values mean better.

period P and lead time L that are encoded into their context vectors xt, which lie in R190 .Typically, review period P takes values of 4 or 7 days, and lead time L takes values of 5 or 7 days. We compare policies πDRL ,Reg for combinations of DRL ∈ { DDPG , DS } and Reg ∈{None , Base , Coeff , Both }, noting that Alibaba has stopped testing PPO at scale due to it generally performing worse than DDPG . The policies were trained using an objective where a 1% decrease in Stockout Rate is worth roughly a 2-day decrease in Turnover Time, and we report the metrics Ltest SR and Ltest TT in Table 1. 

Results. As shown in Table 1, having Both regularizations produces by far the best version of DDPG , while having the Base regularization produces the best version of DS .This supports our Takeaway I from the Introduction. To see the result of Takeaway II, note that without regularizations, πDDPG ,None is much worse than πDS ,None ; with regularizations, 

πDDPG ,Both is comfortably better than πDS ,Base (and πDS ,Both ), recalling that Stockout Rate is twice as important as Turnover Time. Finally, related to Takeaway I, one may wonder whether the results in Table 1 are from “limited hyperparameter search”. To give some perspective, one hyperparame-ter trial for DDPG in this setting (with data size ≈ 50,000 trajectories × 90 days ×

190-dimensional features) takes about 24 wall-clock hours internally at Alibaba. Table 1 shows test results for every πDRL ,Reg after 10 sequential trials, with each trial choosing Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 21

new hyperparameters based on the outcome of the previous trial, over 10 physical days. Although Alibaba could have potentially improved the hyperparameter search with some parallelization, which may decrease the improvement of πDDPG ,Both over πDDPG ,None , this would only increase the advantage of DDPG over DS . Regardless, training is expensive and slow at this scale, and the results in Table 1 depict a realistic outcome for hyperpa-rameter tuning in practice at Alibaba. 

Real-world Deployment and Impact at Alibaba 

We report deployment results observed in the real world. Unlike the offline evaluations presented in Table 1, in actual deployment we may have non-deterministic review periods and lead times. Another difference is that we encounter true demands in the real world, allowing us to stress-test the robustness of our offline training using inferred demands when there was a stockout. Finally, we note that the horizon length T used for training can be arbitrary, where each trained policy is executed in the real world until the next retraining. Alibaba aims to retrain every 1.5 months, using data from the most recent 90 days. To get a sense of real-world scale, Alibaba takes full ownership of inventory and sales for over 100,000 SKU’s on its Tmall e-commerce platform. Inventory for these SKU’s is controlled separately at each of Tmall’s ≈ 20 primary warehouses, leading to over 1 million SKU-warehouse pairs that require periodic inventory decisions. We distinguish between SKU’s sourced from domestic suppliers vs. SKU’s imported from international suppliers, because the incumbent inventory policies for domestic vs. international SKU’s were different. The incumbent inventory policies deployed by Alibaba at that time consisted of either DRL–based algorithms or the more traditional predict-then-optimize approach, in which a demand model is estimated from recent demand sequences and the optimal order quantity for each SKU is subsequently computed using standard Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 22

optimization tools. We defer the details of the history of DRL implementation at Alibaba to Appendix B. The same predict-then-optimize approach can also differ in the depth of its search to manage computational cost. The incumbent international policies adopted more sophisticated search procedures that are computationally intensive, whereas the domestic counterparts used more naive but efficient search schemes to accommodate the much higher volume of domestic products. 

Results 1: Difference-in-Differences (DiD) study in July 2024. An inventory policy trained through DRL with our policy regularizations was piloted on 10% of international SKU’s, cherry-picked to be problematic with great room for inventory improvement. We compare this 10% of SKU’s to the other 90% of international SKU’s before and after the deployment of our policy, and a simple DiD analysis reveals that the piloted SKU’s saw a 0.83% reduction in average Stockout Rate and a 9.53-day reduction in average Turnover Time. We note that this is a significant, Pareto improvement in both of our metrics. 

Results 2: major rollout in April 2025. An inventory policy trained through our DRL was rolled out to 100% of international SKU’s and 87% of domestic SKU’s. Although this major rollout impedes comparison to the incumbent algorithm via DiD, Alibaba conducted a careful counterfactual analysis that simulated the incumbent algorithm with the non-deterministic review periods and lead times actually encountered during April 2025. We compare the actual metrics observed by our deployed policy to this counterfactual execution of the incumbent algorithm during April 2025. Averaging over international SKU’s, our policy achieved a 1-day reduction in Turnover Time compared to the incumbent algorithm, with no distinguishable difference in Stockout Rate. Averaging over domestic SKU’s, our policy achieved a 2-day reduction in Turnover Time, also with no distinguish-able difference in Stockout Rate. A further breakdown by sales volume is shown in Table 2, Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

23 

SKU Category A+ A B C D ZInternational SKU’s (change in days) -1.36 -0.82 -1.02 -1.27 – –Domestic SKU’s (change in days) -4.04 -3.81 -2.93 -2.23 -2.13 -0.64  

> Table 2 Changes in average Turnover Time without changing average Stockout Rate. SKU’s are categorized by sales volume from A+ (fastest-moving) to Z (long-tail). The time period is April 2025.

where we note that these simple averages undersell our improvement in Turnover Time because the improvement is greatest on the A+ (highest-volume) SKU’s. We also note that the improvement in domestic SKU’s is greater partly because the incumbent algorithm is more naive, even though the improvement is not to the level of the international SKU’s from the July 2024 DiD study that were cherry-picked. This Pareto improvement of reducing Turnover Time without changing Stockout Rate also allows to estimate the financial benefit from the inventory reduction. Assuming an average inventory value of 5 billion RMB, Alibaba estimates an inventory reduction worth 350 million RMB, leading to annual savings in the cost of capital that amounts to approx-imately 13.3 million RMB. 

Results 3: turnover during July–August 2025. Alibaba continued monitoring inventory per-formance after our major rollout of DRL, especially when the inventory policy has to be retrained. To this end, we show the average Turnover Time of international SKU’s during July–August 2025, a period that captures retrainings of the DRL policy, and compare it to the average Turnover Time of international SKU’s during the same period in 2024, before our major rollout of DRL. As seen from Figure 5, there is a massive 20% reduction in Turnover Time in 2025; it was also reported to us that Stockout Rates did not get notice-ably worse. Although this comparison does not rigorously control for many other factors 2  

> 2We note that July and August are relatively calm months for Tmall without major promotional events that could have differential effects between 2024 and 2025, which is why this period was chosen for comparison. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management

24  

> Figure 5 Evolution of average Turnover Time for international SKU’s during July–August, in 2024 and 2025. All numbers are normalized relative to the maximum average Turnover Time encountered in either year.

that could have caused the change from 2024 to 2025, it provides high-level managerial confidence that our deployment of DRL is stable over time, even when the policy is re-trained. As a result, our policy has been fully deployed as of October 2025 to 100% of the SKU-warehouse pairs (over 1 million) managed by Alibaba. 

Conclusion 

All in all, our paper demonstrates the power of a hybrid approach that integrates classical inventory heuristics from Operations Research to regularize policies learned by powerful modern DRL methods. Performance aside, we believe that these policy regularizations are essential for operationalizing DRL in practice, as they greatly reduce the computational burden of training and hyperparameter tuning, factors we have observed to be dealbreakers within companies. Our paper also presents a more detailed comparison of DRL algorithms with and without policy regularizations on synthetic data. Implementing a regularized DRL algorithm at Alibaba has had a tremendous impact, allowing inventory replenishment decisions to automatically respond to dynamic, high-dimensional demand signals while remaining interpretable and consistently achieving strong performance. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

25 

References 

J. Achiam. Spinning up in deep reinforcement learning, 2018. URL https://spinningup.openai.com/en/ latest/spinningup/rl_intro.html .M. Alvo, D. Russo, and Y. Kanoria. Neural inventory control in networks via hindsight differentiable policy optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.11246 , 2023. B. J. De Moor, J. Gijsbrechts, and R. N. Boute. Reward shaping to improve the performance of deep reinforcement learning in perishable inventory management. European Journal of Operational Research ,301(2):535–545, 2022. J. Gijsbrechts, R. N. Boute, J. A. Van Mieghem, and D. Zhang. Ai in inventory management: The disruptive era of drl and beyond. Available at SSRN 5199616 , 2025. T. Haarnoja, A. Zhou, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine. Soft actor-critic: Off-policy maximum entropy deep re-inforcement learning with a stochastic actor. In International conference on machine learning , pages 1861–1870. PMLR, 2018. R. Liaw, E. Liang, R. Nishihara, P. Moritz, J. E. Gonzalez, and I. Stoica. Tune: A research platform for distributed model selection and training. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.05118 , 2018. T. P. Lillicrap, J. J. Hunt, A. Pritzel, N. Heess, T. Erez, Y. Tassa, D. Silver, and D. Wierstra. Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1509.02971 , 2015. J. Liu, S. Lin, L. Xin, and Y. Zhang. Ai vs. human buyers: A study of alibaba’s inventory replenishment system. INFORMS Journal on Applied Analytics , 53(5):372–387, 2023. D. Madeka, K. Torkkola, C. Eisenach, A. Luo, D. P. Foster, and S. M. Kakade. Deep inventory management. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03137 , 2022. A. Maggiar, S. Andaz, A. Bagaria, C. Eisenach, D. Foster, O. Gottesman, and D. Perrault-Joncas. Structure-informed deep reinforcement learning for inventory management. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.22040 ,2025. M. Qi, Y. Shi, Y. Qi, C. Ma, R. Yuan, D. Wu, and Z.-J. Shen. A practical end-to-end inventory management model with deep learning. Management Science , 69(2):759–773, 2023. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

26 A. Raffin, A. Hill, A. Gleave, A. Kanervisto, M. Ernestus, and N. Dormann. Stable-baselines3: Reliable reinforcement learning implementations. Journal of Machine Learning Research , 22(268):1–8, 2021. J. Schulman, S. Levine, P. Abbeel, M. Jordan, and P. Moritz. Trust region policy optimization. In Interna-tional conference on machine learning , pages 1889–1897. PMLR, 2015a. J. Schulman, P. Moritz, S. Levine, M. Jordan, and P. Abbeel. High-dimensional continuous control using generalized advantage estimation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.02438 , 2015b. J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov. Proximal policy optimization algorithms. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347 , 2017. L. V. Snyder and Z.-J. M. Shen. Fundamentals of supply chain theory . John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, NJ, second edition, 2019. Y. Xie, W. Ma, and L. Xin. Vc theory for inventory policies. available on SSRN 4794903 , 2025. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 27

Appendix A: Synthetic Experiments 

Implementation and Hyperparameter Details 

Our DDPG and PPO code is based on the open-source Stable-Baselines3 implementation (Raffin et al. 2021), and our DS code is based on the open-source implementation of Alvo et al. (2023). Both are implemented in PyTorch. The synthetic experiments were conducted on a rented Runpod instance equipped with one NVIDIA RTX A4500 GPU, 12 vCPU’s (AMD EPYC 7352), and 62 GB of RAM. During training, DDPG and PPO are evaluated on Dvalidate every eval freq steps. Train-ing is stopped if the validation loss Lvalidate bh does not improve over the last patience evalu-ations or if the total number of training steps exceeds total steps ; in either case, the most recent policy is saved. For DS , evaluation on Dvalidate is performed once per epoch, and training is stopped if Lvalidate bh does not improve over the last patience evaluations or if the total number of training epochs exceeds epochs .All algorithms are trained using the Adam optimizer with an initial learning rate learn-ing rate . To improve convergence, we adopt a learning-rate scheduler for each algorithm. For 

DDPG and PPO , the scheduler follows the Stable-Baselines3 function get linear fn (start, end, end fraction) with start = learning rate , end = lr min , and end fraction = lr fraction . We also schedule the clip range for PPO using get linear fn (start, end, end fraction) , where 

start = clip range , end = 0 .5 × clip range , and end fraction = lr fraction . For DS , we use the PyTorch ReduceLROnPlateau scheduler with patience = 3 and factor = scheduler factor ,keeping all other inputs at their default values. For consistency, we use the following procedure to tune hyperparameters in all experi-ments on synthetic data. We use the Ray Tune package (Liaw et al. 2018) to intelligently search over a hyperparameter grid (see details in Tables 3 to 5) and identify the con-figuration that minimizes validation loss. The search uses Bayesian optimization with a Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 28

Tree-structured Parzen Estimator, evaluating 50 configurations in the first stage. In the second stage, the five best configurations from stage one are each re-run across five ran-dom seeds, and the final winner is selected based on median performance across these seeds, using the stage-one configuration with the lowest average validation loss. This two-stage procedure helps mitigate overfitting and ensures robust hyperparameter selection for evaluation. We specify the hyperparameter values or search ranges used in each setting in Ta-bles 3 to 5, where tune.choice , tune.uniform , and tune.loguniform are Ray Tune sam-pling functions that draw uniformly from a discrete set, a continuous interval, and a continuous interval on the log scale, respectively. We use bold text to indicate hyper-parameters that are built-in inputs to the Stable-Baselines3 implementations of DDPG 

and PPO , while all remaining built-in hyperparameters follow their default values (see 

https://stable-baselines3.readthedocs.io/en/master/ ). In addition to eval freq ,

patience , total steps , epochs , learning rate , lr min , lr fraction , and scheduler factor , our self-defined hyperparameters also include max replenish and initial action bias . They ensure that both the action space and the final order quantity are upper bounded by max replenish ,and that the initial bias of the policy network equals initial action bias × max replenish .

Trajectory Distributions and Details of Synthetic Results 

We describe the three types of trajectory distributions as follows: 1. Independent but non-identically distributed demands (INDEP distribution): for all (|D train | + |D validate | + |D test |) SKU’s, demand trajectories are IID drawn from the same distribution. At time t, the demand dt is independently drawn from a discrete uniform distribution U {bt, b t + 1 , . . . , b t + 4 }. Here, the lower bound bt ∈ Z≥0 is generated from a truncated normal distribution ⌊max {0, N (μ, σ 2)}⌋ with μ = 10 and σ = 4. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

29 INDEP AR(1) 

policy ‘MlpPolicy’ 

learning rate =

get linear fn 

learning rate tune.loguniform (3e-4, 9e-3) tune.loguniform (6e-4, 9e-3) 

lr min tune.loguniform (6e-5, 3e-4) tune.loguniform (9e-5, 6e-4) 

lr fraction 0.95 

batch size tune.choice ([128, 256, 512]) 

tau tune.loguniform (1e-3, 1e-2) 

gamma tune.uniform (0.98, 1) tune.uniform (0.96, 1) 

policy kwargs =dict[ net arch ]‘pi’: [64, 64], ‘qf’: [64, 64] ‘pi’: [32, 32], ‘qf’: [32, 32] for Setting 2 ‘pi’: [32, 32], ‘qf’: [16, 16] for Setting 3 

buffer size tune.choice ([20,000, 50,000, 100,000]) 

train freq tune.choice ([1, 14]) 

learning starts tune.choice ([100, 500, 1000]) 

total steps 200,000 

eval freq tune.choice ([512, 1024]) 

patience 10 

max replenish 100 

initial action bias tune.uniform (0.2, 0.7) tune.uniform (0, 0.6)  

> Table 3 Hyperparameter values or ranges of DDPG.

2. Autoregressive demands (AR(1) distribution): for each SKU i ∈

1, ..., |D train | + |D validate | + |D test | , the demands (dit)Tt=1 follow a truncated AR(1) process. Specifically, dit = max {0, ϕ idit−1 + (1 − ϕi) ¯di + ϵit}, where the initial demand 

di 

> 0

is drawn from max 0, N ( ¯di, (σi)2) . Here, the coefficient ϕi, base demand ¯di, and noise standard deviation σi are drawn from uniform distributions U [0 .3, 0.9], U [5 , 10] and U [2 , 8], respectively, and ϵit follows N (0 , (σi)2). 3. Independent and identically distributed demands (IID distribution): for each SKU 

i ∈ { 1, ..., |D train |} , the demand dit at every time t is independently drawn from a trun-Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

30 INDEP AR(1) 

policy ‘MlpPolicy’ 

learning rate =

get linear fn 

learning rate tune.loguniform (5e-5, 9e-3) tune.loguniform (6e-4, 1e-2) 

lr min tune.loguniform (1e-5, 5e-5) tune.loguniform (9e-5, 6e-4) 

lr fraction 0.9 

clip range =

get linear fn 

clip range tune.uniform (0.1, 0.3) 

lr fraction 0.9 

batch size tune.choice ([128, 256, 512]) 

n steps tune.choice ([1024, 2048, 4096]) tune.choice ([512, 1024, 2048]) 

ent coef tune.uniform (1e-4, 5e-1) 

gamma tune.uniform (0.98, 1) tune.uniform (0.96, 1) 

gae lambda tune.uniform (0.5, 1) tune.uniform (0, 0.5) for Base 

tune.uniform (0.5, 1) for None 

policy kwargs =dict[ net arch ]‘pi’: [256, 256], ‘vf’: [256, 256] ‘pi’: [128, 128], ‘vf’: [64, 64] for Setting 2 ‘pi’: [64, 64], ‘vf’: [64, 64] for Setting 3 

vf coef 0.4 

total steps 200,000 

eval freq tune.choice ([512, 1024, 2048]) tune.choice ([1024, 2048]) 

patience 10 

max replenish 100 

initial action bias tune.uniform (0.2, 0.7) tune.uniform (0, 0.6) 

Table 4 Hyperparameter values or ranges of PPO. 

cated normal distribution max {0, N (100 , (σi)2)}, where σi is drawn from a uniform distribution U [5 , 20]. Note that the feature xit of SKU i here is set to be the parameter 

σi for each t.The absolute values of the validation and testing losses corresponding to the percentage loss gaps in Figures 1 and 4 are reported in Tables 6 to 9. The loss gaps are computed Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

31 INDEP AR(1) IID 

policy ‘MlpPolicy’ 

neurons per hidden layer 

tune.choice([[32, 32], [64, 64], [128, 128]]) tune.choice([[16, 16], [32, 32], [64, 64]]) 

inner layer activation ‘elu’ 

output layer activation ‘relu’ 

batch size tune.choice ([5, 10]) tune.choice ([5, 10, 20]) 

learning rate tune.loguniform (4e-4, 1e-1) 

scheduler factor tune.uniform (0.5, 0.95) 0.5 

epochs 3000 

patience 30 

max replenish 100 500 

initial action bias tune.uniform (0.2, 0.7) tune.uniform (0, 0.6)  

> Table 5 Hyperparameter values or ranges of DS.

relative to the benchmark Ltest bh (π∗) obtained by solving or approximating the optimal policy 

π∗ with knowledge of the true demand distribution. For the INDEP distribution, it is well known that the optimal policy belongs to the class of time-dependent base-stock policies (see, e.g., Snyder and Shen 2019), and we compute it exactly via dynamic programming. For the AR(1) distribution, the optimal loss is approximated by training DS on the testing dataset Dtest . For the IID distribution, it is well known that the optimal policy lies within the class of stationary base-stock policies (see, e.g., Snyder and Shen 2019), and we compute the optimal base-stock level exactly via the critical fractile formula. Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

32 

DRL Method DDPG PPO DS 

Policy Regularization None Base None Base None Base 

Validation Loss 0.9340 0.9264 0.9045 0.8917 1.2371 1.0454 Validation Loss Gap (%) 7.73 6.86 4.33 2.85 42.69 20.57 Testing Loss 0.9443 0.9356 0.9104 0.8966 1.2540 1.0959 Testing Loss Gap (%) 8.92 7.92 5.01 3.41 44.64 26.40  

> Table 6 Validation and Testing Loss and corresponding Loss Gaps relative to the benchmark loss of 0.8670 in Setting 1.

DRL Method DDPG PPO DS 

Policy Regularization None Base None Base None Base 

Validation Loss 2.3139 2.2647 2.4428 2.3069 2.2561 2.2550 Validation Loss Gap (%) 1.32 -0.83 6.96 1.01 -1.21 -1.26 Testing Loss 2.5735 2.4557 2.7257 2.5273 2.4455 2.4342 Testing Loss Gap (%) 12.69 7.53 19.35 10.66 7.08 6.58  

> Table 7 Validation and Testing Loss and corresponding Loss Gaps relative to the benchmark loss of 2.2838 in Setting 2.

Appendix B: History of DRL Implementations at Alibaba 

Alibaba has been implementing RL methods on a subset of its product portfolio since 2020, as documented in Liu et al. (2023). The earlier version of the RL algorithm was not general-purpose, requiring similar products to be grouped first before training separate models for each group. This grouping was necessary because different products exhibit significant variations in business objectives, demand patterns, and supply constraints. For example, in terms of business objectives, bestsellers prioritize stock availability, whereas long-tail products emphasize inventory turnover; on the supply side, fulfillment capabilities Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

> 33

DRL Method DDPG PPO DS 

Policy Regularization None Base None Base None Base 

Validation Loss 2.2341 2.3236 2.3515 2.4747 2.1643 2.2141 Validation Loss Gap (%) -2.18 1.74 2.97 8.36 -5.23 -3.05 Testing Loss 2.6275 2.4727 2.6664 2.5319 2.5017 2.5060 Testing Loss Gap (%) 15.05 8.27 16.75 10.86 9.54 9.73  

> Table 8 Validation and Testing Loss and corresponding Loss Gaps relative to the benchmark loss of 2.2838 in Setting 3.

vary across merchants, with substantial differences in restocking frequency, delivery times, and minimum order quantities. Moreover, cross-group transfer from bestsellers to long-tail products is challenging, because the long-tail group suffers from data sparsity and poor generalization. These challenges necessitate maintaining independent feature pipelines, ac-tor/critic networks, and hyperparameter tuning processes for each group, which signifi-cantly increases engineering overhead and limits the scalability of RL across all products. Therefore, a significant portion of the portfolio at the time relied on a more traditional predict-then-optimize approach, which was substantially easier to maintain. While an RL model only required retraining every one to two months, each retraining cycle was time-consuming especially in a highly dynamic environment where feature updates were fre-quent. In contrast, predict-then-optimize models were more lightweight operationally. To illustrate the difference in maintenance burden: RL deployment required a dedicated team of algorithm scientists, whereas predict-then-optimize models could be maintained by a team of engineers plus one or two scientists. Compared to the earlier version, the new version of RL (as discussed in this paper) is general-purpose: a single model applies across all products, eliminating the need to Xie et al.: DeepStock: Reinforcement Learning with Policy Regularizations for Inventory Management 

34 

T = 5 T = 17 T = 33 T = 65 T = 129 

|D train | = 5 Benchmark Loss 2.3669 2.3726 2.3792 2.3884 2.3764 Validation Loss 1.8045 1.4850 2.4117 2.6374 2.2657 Validation Loss Gap (%) -23.76 -37.41 1.37 10.43 -4.66 Testing Loss Gap 2.8733 2.7180 2.8351 2.5135 2.5745 Testing Loss Gap (%) 21.40 14.56 19.16 5.24 8.33 

|D train | = 10 Benchmark Loss 2.2569 2.2672 2.2712 2.2728 2.2640 Validation Loss 1.6897 2.3809 2.2431 2.1605 2.1559 Validation Loss Gap (%) -25.13 5.02 -1.23 -4.94 -4.77 Testing Loss 2.4006 2.4975 2.4011 2.4349 2.3389 Testing Loss Gap (%) 6.37 10.16 5.72 7.13 3.31 

|D train | = 20 Benchmark Loss 2.0932 2.1064 2.1011 2.0999 2.1003 Validation Loss 1.2135 2.2363 2.0620 1.9926 2.1363 Validation Loss Gap (%) -42.02 6.17 -1.86 -5.11 1.72 Testing Loss 2.3741 2.2194 2.1747 2.1607 2.1378 Testing Loss Gap (%) 13.42 5.37 3.50 2.90 1.79  

> Table 9 Validation and Testing Loss and corresponding Loss Gaps for DS with Base regularization in Setting 4.

train separate models. This is enabled by the idea of policy regularizations, supported by several engineering components, including (1) integrating with the operational system so that business objectives (e.g., service levels, inventory turnover) set on the system side are automatically reflected as reward weights, (2) enriching state features to capture product, supplier, and sales channel diversity, (3) scaling to larger-scale deep networks (up to billions of parameters) for robust high-dimensional mappings, and (4) shifting from manual hyperparameter tuning to automated Taguchi experiments.